---
layout: project
lab: OK Lab Karlsruhe #needed for Aggregation on Lab-Page
imgname: karlsruhe/sens-ws.png
title: Sensor Workshop
showcase: 1
status: Done

collaborators:
  - name: Andreas Kugel
  - name: Martin Weis
  - name: Christian Bauer


links:
  - name: Workshop WiKi
    url: https://github.com/digital-codes/critical-workshops/wiki/Willkommen

---


Sensor workshops will take place in April and Mai 2023 at ZKM. Workshop language will be German.

Dates, 15:00-18:00 each:

 * [21.4.2023](https://zkm.de/de/fuehrung-workshop/2023/04/programmieren-mit-umweltsensoren)
 * [12.5.2023](https://zkm.de/de/fuehrung-workshop/2023/05/programmieren-mit-umweltsensoren)

Registration via ZKM. Cost see ZKM.


### Environmental Sensors
For centuries, man has been trying to create machines that simulate life. A contemporary and typical example of this are the sensors of a computer. These sensors correspond to our sensory organs and essentially provide the computer with a kind of machine-sensory experience.

The sensors convert environmental events (sound, light, heat, and the like) into digital data that the machine can process in any way it chooses. How do these sensors work, what kind of data do they provide, and how can we program them?

In this sensor workshop, we will show how we can assemble and program a measuring device for air data ourselves. We will learn which substances are in the room air or how e.g. CO2 can be measured with a sensor. The programming is done via a simple graphical user interface. Previous experience is not required, but it helps to be interested in digital technologies.

Two types of sensors will be used, a sensor that measures total [volatile organic compounds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Volatile_organic_compound) (*tvoc*, this is also the acronym for the workshop here on the wiki) in indoor air, and an air pressure and temperature sensor (Baro).

We will build on the material from the last workshop, the most important info can be found in [WiKi](https://github.com/digital-codes/critical-workshops/wiki/Welcome).


