---
layout: project
lab: OK Lab Karlsruhe #needed for Aggregation on Lab-Page
imgname: karlsruhe/kai-logo.jpg
title: CoDaKaI - Coding, Daten und Ka-I
showcase: 1
status: Laufend

collaborators:
  - name: Andreas Kugel

# DEFAULT_CATEGORIES = ["environment","politics","society","mobility"]
categories:
  - society



---
What is Coding, Data, and AI all about?

We use **Ka-I** (Karlsruhe Intelligence) to shed light on the digital darkness.

In a relaxed workshop series, you can get familiar with the most important basics and tools.

### The Next Topic

#### 16.3.2024: Continuation of OpenData HackDays

Saturday, 1:00–5:00 PM at ImpactHub Karlsruhe, [Kaiserstr. 97](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/304550742)

On March 1st/2nd, 2024, the OpenData HackDays took place. The teams and new interested participants are planning the next steps. Coding is allowed. If you missed it: Info about the HackDays [here](/en/projects/2024-03-01-odd24)

Please [register here](https://pretix.eu/digital-codes/codakai-20240316/)

**Note on Data Protection**: Registration and, if applicable, payment are handled by external providers (Pretix and Stripe) with their own GDPR terms. We store your name and email as long as necessary and permitted, usually until the end of the workshop series. If you have questions, please contact [us](mailto:info@ok-lab-karlsruhe.de). By clicking the respective *ticket* link, you agree to these terms.

### Get Involved in the Project
We are happy if you already have some experience in these topics and would like to help with preparation and/or workshop facilitation. Unfortunately, we can only offer fame and honor.

[Write to us](mailto:info@ok-lab-karlsruhe.de)

### About AI
Traditional programming (see above) gives instructions that machines (computers) execute to calculate results.
The idea of AI is to write programs that mimic human thinking: neural networks.

We need to train these networks (models) with data and evaluations. After some time, they can distinguish *right* from *wrong* on their own.

At least based on the data they have received, and with certain errors. After all, we make mistakes ourselves from time to time.

Well-trained models can now deliver very good results in many areas—and we can't really understand this from the program code and training data. This is probably why we tend to attribute **intelligence** to these systems: *It works well, but we don't know how. So it must be intelligent!* Otherwise, we would be the dumb ones.

We use models (**AI**) where available and sensible. That's why there are also workshops *without AI*.

### Past Topics

#### 25.11.2023: AI in Environmental Protection

Saturday, 1:00–5:00 PM at ImpactHub Karlsruhe, [Kaiserstr. 97](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/304550742)

We are pleased that on November 25th, 2023, we could hold a workshop together with the [*KI-Ideenwerkstatt*](https://www.ki-ideenwerkstatt.de/veranstaltungen/von-ki-neuronalen-netzen-und-klassifikationen-von-insekten/) on the topic **AI and Environmental Protection**. More information about this program from the *BMUV* can be found [here](https://www.bmuv.de/download/fuenf-punkte-programm-kuenstliche-intelligenz-fuer-umwelt-und-klima).

> Are you interested in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and environmental protection? Do you want to understand how neural networks work and how they can be used, for example, to classify animals and plants? Then join our introductory AI workshop from OK Lab Karlsruhe in cooperation with the KI-Ideenwerkstatt. At Impact Hub Karlsruhe, we will introduce you to the basics of AI.  
> AI is narrowly defined as “learning systems.” Why “learning”? An AI system “learns” the path to a solution similarly to how a human does—based on observations, i.e., data, in many successive “training runs.” This requires large amounts of data and computing power.  
> In the workshop, we will jointly build a simple AI system with all the steps—data collection and preparation, model building, training, and evaluation—just as would be necessary for a real application, such as recognizing insects.

After this introductory event, we plan to deepen the topic together with you, for example, to recognize invasive insect species on a balcony using a small camera.

<!-- 

Here is the preliminary agenda:

| Time  |  Title |
| --- | --- |
| 13:00 |    Welcome | 
| 13:10  |    Introduction| 
| 13:30  |   Intro AI+Environmental Protection | 
| 14:15 |    Brainstorming  | 
| 14:45 |     Plenary  | 
| 15:00 |    Break   | 
| 15:15 |   Tools   | 
| 15:45 |      Hands-On | 
| 16:45 |      Wrap-Up  | 
| 17:00 |    End |   

-->

#### 28.10.2023: Coding and Sensors
Saturday, 1:00–5:00 PM at ImpactHub Karlsruhe, [Kaiserstr. 97](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/304550742)

**Introduction to Coding and Sensors** – What is it, how does it work, and what do you need for it?
If you have never programmed before, you will find an easy introduction with a graphical programming environment and can, for example,
make LEDs blink, shake sensors, or send CO2 data to an IoT cloud.
With some prior knowledge, you can use Python *(not so hard)* to understand various basics, such as how to generate images by program.

There is also some information about technology and data and what you can do with sensors. For this, we will refer to some content from our [environmental sensor workshops](https://github.com/digital-codes/critical-workshops/wiki/tvocDe).

We hold the workshops at [ImpactHub Karlsruhe](https://karlsruhe.impacthub.net). We have laptops available for groups of two. You are also welcome to bring your own PC (notebook, laptop) with Wi-Fi and a reasonably up-to-date browser. We provide the rest of the equipment.

#### 23.8.2023: Coding and Sensors
Saturday, 1:00–5:00 PM at ImpactHub Karlsruhe, [Kaiserstr. 97](https://www.openstreetmap.org/way/304550742)

We start with an **introduction to coding and sensors** – What is it, how does it work, and what do you need for it?
If you have never programmed before, you will find an easy introduction with a graphical programming environment and can, for example,
make LEDs blink, shake sensors, or send CO2 data to an IoT cloud.
With some prior knowledge, you can use Python *(not so hard)* to understand various basics, such as how to generate images by program.

There is also some information about technology and data and what you can do with sensors. For this, we will refer to some content from our [environmental sensor workshops](https://github.com/digital-codes/critical-workshops/wiki/tvocDe).

We hold the workshops at [ImpactHub Karlsruhe](https://karlsruhe.impacthub.net). We have laptops available for groups of two. You are also welcome to bring your own PC (notebook, laptop) with Wi-Fi and a reasonably up-to-date browser. We provide the rest of the equipment.
